Sometimes, when people say something is "secret," they mean that it is very unknown or hidden. But
this is really a secret.
In the Second World War the United Kingdom had a problem: getting fuel from the refineries to the airports
that spread across the country. Above ground transport of fuel was too fragile for well-placed
bombing of the road network. It was not the tankers themselves that were targeted, but the roads
that were used. The solution: a huge, secret, underground tube
network to transport kerosene through the country. It was even built at night so that the hostile
reconnaissance aircraft would not be able to see what was happening.
In the decades that followed, this network has been extended and expanded and extended to
2400 kilometers of pipelines, which are ports, airports, refineries and
Air Force bases throughout the UK. It is vital for both military and civilian use: if you
plane is replenished at any known British airfield that comes fuel from tanks that
connected to this pipe system.
Airports in other countries have similar systems, but these are smaller, private agreements.
This was a big, secret government network - in fact, until it was sold and privatized
in recent years, the air force regularly flew over most of the network
See if everything was okay.
The pipe system is now known to the general public because, well, it is difficult something like that
great as to keep this secret. You can view a schedule, such as a vague metro map, and
there are a few well-documented places like here in the Gloucester area, where it comes above ground
for a few meters. But there is no public card that shows exactly where the pipes are. In
In 2010, the government refused to respond to a request under the Government Information Act that asked for the card, under the
mom that it would jeopardize national security and resilience. And, to be honest, that would do it.
But at the same time: a local person might need to know where a pipe is, just
so that a construction worker does not simply break a pipe with his drill bit, and under high pressure
spray very flammable kerosene, and ensure that Heathrow Airport is stationary for a day.
That is why all pipes have these markers above them at regular intervals - sometimes
the small ones like in the background, but often these are gigantic poles. Many people see
they just like some street furniture, if they are noticed at all, but for professionals
looking around, ready to dig, that's a big warning sign that you, maybe,
just have to verify what exactly is under the ground here.
In theory, someone could use modern air and street photography, work out the routes
and just publish them - and there are enthusiasts who have done that for their field. But you
there will be no official confirmation of it, because for once, this pipe system
is really secret.
Translated by: Bryan Lumaye Debt